Next let's look at Resource Monitor and Performance Monitor.
Resource Monitor, the way I described it at the beginning of this module,
was a hopped-up version of Task Manager.
Resource Monitor takes a look at running system processes and allows
you to plot them in real time against your hardware.
Specifically, as you can see it right in this screenshot,
you can select a process and look at what it's using
right now in terms of CPU or processor, hard disk,
network, and memory.
Once again, in the name of troubleshooting,
performance tuning, and optimization,
if you have a clear picture of what code is running on your system
and the impact that code has on your system,
this can take you a long way towards making good improvements.
Performance Monitor is used for all of the above reasons,
troubleshooting, performance tuning, optimization,
and it actually includes a whole lot of stuff
besides just what you're seeing here.
This EKG-type view is Performance Monitor itself,
but in the left-hand part of this MMC console,
you see Reports and Data Collector Sets.
We'll get into specifically what that is in the demo,
but the great beauty of Performance Monitor is that you can monitor,
well, the performance of a system either locally or remotely.
You'll recall a module or two ago when I showed you the
Microsoft System Information tool?
The fact that you can easily connect to a remote machine,
as long as you A) can connect to that computer through the firewall
and other network controls you have in place,
and also you have a privileged account that works on that remote machine.
The same idea with Performance Monitor.
In point of fact, when you're doing real troubleshooting,
especially on server systems,
you never want to start Performance Monitor on that system.
Do you know why?
You don't want to add overhead of the monitoring process to skew your results.
So instead, you'd run Performance Monitor and run a trace from,
say, your desktop workstation, point to the server in question,
and that way you're able to get a much better baseline of
what's actually happening on the system without the overhead of the monitoring process.